In this demo we will code the navigation through the BookStore components.
We will not use the Angular CLI this time because we've already added the
router module when we bootstrapped the application.
So now it's just a matter of adding some router links in the HTML templates
as well as using the router API in the TypeScript classes.
Like in the previous demo we will run the web server while we code so
the browser will automatically render what we type.
When I develop in Angular,
I like to have the browser on one side and the IDE on the
other side so I can see what I'm coding.
So let's go to our main component, the app.
component.
html,
and until now we have our three components all bundled
together instead of using navigation.
So let's start the server and let's get rid of these three components.
So if I save the page, it refreshes, the three components are gone.
Let's move this tag router-outlet that ng CLI generated for us.
This is the outlet that will display the component when navigating.
But nothing is displayed.
Why?
Because we don't have a route.
So let's go to the app-routing.
module, I'm splitting the screen, I'm leaving the HTML template at the top,
and I'm now creating a default route, so the home page,
by default, should display the BookListComponent.
Here it is, so if I save the page,
it reloads and this time it will display the component on the default route.
Let's duplicate that and create view routes.
So the book-list, going to the book-list it will display the BookListComponent,
and going to the book-form it will display the BookFormComponent.
Good.
So now I have these two routes, let's use them on our navigation bar.
So when I click on Create,
I'll tell the router link to go to the book-form route,
which will display the BookFormComponent.
So if I save the page, click on Create, yes it's working.
So let's copy that and paste it on the list menu,
but this time it will not go to book-form,
but book-list.
So I save the page and this time if I click on List, yep it's going to the list.
So back to the Create book, so the book-form,
when I click on Cancel, I want to go back to the book-list.
So let's add the router link to the Cancel button.
So I go to the book-form, I look for the Cancel button,
here, and routerLink book-list, I save the page and now if I click on Cancel,
good, it goes to the book-list.
Now our second use case is when I click on the title of the book,
I want the detail of this specific book.
So I create a new route, book-detail, which will execute the BookDetailComponent,
but look I'm passing a parameter that I called bookID.
So let's add this new route in the BookListComponent,
here it is, let's look for the title here,
and I'm doing routLink book-detail and the second parameter
will be the id attribute of our book.
Save the page, click on dummy 1, oh it's not working,
dummy 2, oh, let's open the dev tools from Chrome.
Let's browse up, it's usually at the top.
Oh okay, book-list, yep, so book-list/book-details,
that's because there's a slash missing.
Okay, sorry.
Save the page, click on dummy, yeah.
You see how handy the Dev Chrome Tools can be.
So if I click on dummy title 2, yes, the URL has a 2.
Brilliant.
Dummy title 1, the URL has a 1.
Now I want to delete the book,
so when I press the Delete button I want to make an action,
call our REST API and then go back to the book-list.
So let's open the book-detail.
component,
the TypeScript and the HTML template and because it's a
form I am using the directive ngSubmit.
I'm telling Angular, when you submit the form,
when you click on Delete, execute the method that I call delete.
So now I have to define the Delete method in the TypeScript.
So this method needs to navigate, so I need the router, the Angular router.
Let's inject it, so private router of type Router.
So when I press the Delete button, it invokes the delete method.
This method will invoke our REST API in the next module,
but then it uses the router API to navigate to the right route book-list.
So now if I click on Delete, good, it goes back to the book-list.
Let's commit our code now.
So we've changed most of our components to add routing and navigation.
So the book-detail, book-form, book-list,
and of course we defined our routes on the app-routing.
module and we got rid of our components to put the
router outlet tag on our main component. Let's change the commit test and commit.